docs: enrich the landing page with basic concepts (#472)
canonical/pebble: docs/index.md

# Pebble

**Pebble** is a lightweight Linux service manager.

It helps you orchestrate a set of local processes as an organised set. It resembles well-known tools such as _supervisord_, _runit_, or _s6_, in that it can easily manage non-system processes independently from the system services. However, it was designed with unique features such as layered configuration and an HTTP API that help with more specific use cases.

> Pebble fulfils the need for streamlined, dependable, and secure service management. It empowers you to efficiently operate your services with ease, resolve service interdependencies, configure tailored health checks to automatically restart services upon failure, and gain insightful visibility into Pebble server events for a comprehensive understanding of operational dynamics. Pebble also supports simple identity and access control, ensuring secure usage in shared environments.

Author: I'm OK with removing the advertising words, but I prefer to keep the logic in this paragraph:

Pebble meets the needs of A, B, and C. A: service management (dependency, health check, etc.). B: changes/tasks/notices: you can see what's going on. C: identities, can be used in a shared env.

> Pebble fulfils the need for streamlined, dependable, and secure service management. It empowers you to efficiently operate your services with ease, resolve service interdependencies, configure tailored health checks to automatically restart services upon failure, and gain insightful visibility into Pebble server events for a comprehensive understanding of operational dynamics. Pebble also supports simple identity and access control, ensuring secure usage in shared environments.

Reviewer: Fair enough. How about this -- trying to address your A, B, and C.

> Pebble fulfils the need to manage services, their logs, and their dependencies, as well as create health checks to monitor your services. It allows you to introspect operations using Pebble's system of changes and tasks. Pebble also allows you to manage security with API access control and named identities, so it's effective in a shared environment.

Open to suggestions on this.

> Pebble fulfils the need for streamlined, dependable, and secure service management. It empowers you to efficiently operate your services with ease, resolve service interdependencies, configure tailored health checks to automatically restart services upon failure, and gain insightful visibility into Pebble server events for a comprehensive understanding of operational dynamics. Pebble also supports simple identity and access control, ensuring secure usage in shared environments.

Reviewer 2: hey @IronCore864 , @benhoyt , I think @benhoyt suggested changes are cleaner and straight-to-the-point. For technical users who do want to use Pebble, it's probably better to use less jargon.

Thanks.

> Pebble caters to a diverse user base managing services both locally and within containerised environments, offering a robust solution for your workload management needs. It is also extensively used alongside [Juju and Charms](https://juju.is/).

Reviewer: Again lots of jargon here: "caters", "diverse", "robust solution", "X needs". Open to better suggestions, but perhaps:

```suggestion
Pebble is useful for developers who are building [Juju charms on Kubernetes](https://juju.is/docs/sdk/from-zero-to-hero-write-your-first-kubernetes-charm), creating [Rocks](https://documentation.ubuntu.com/rockcraft/en/latest/explanation/rocks/) or Docker images, or orchestrating services in the virtual machine.
```

Author: The suggested edit is committed, it says the same thing with plain words and I like it.

_Take control of your internal daemons!_

> **Pebble** is an open-source, declarative, client/server service manager that helps you orchestrate a set of local processes as an organised set on UNIX-like operating systems. It resembles well-known tools such as _supervisord_, _runit_, or _s6_, in that it can easily manage non-system processes independently from the system services, but it was designed with unique features that help with more specific use cases.

Reviewer: I like the intention here (to describe what it is rather than just what it helps you with), but I think "declarative" is pretty vague, as is client/server. Open source seems kind of obvious (and we mention "free software" and the GPL below under "Project and community"). It's also (currently) Linux-only, not Unix-like. How about this:

```suggestion
**Pebble** is a lightweight Linux service manager that helps you orchestrate a set of local processes as an organised set. It resembles well-known tools such as _supervisord_, _runit_, or _s6_, in that it can easily manage non-system processes independently from the system services. However, it was designed with unique features such as layered configuration and an HTTP API that help with more specific use cases.
```

> ## Learn the fundamentals

Reviewer: I'm not a fan of this section here. It seems like a random collection of links, many of which apply to most Linux tools. I think we can assume the target audience knows Linux basics, and things like YAML docs we can link to at the appropriate points (in the tutorial or other docs).
